You come to Uber, you're going to work
your ass off. And if you're not
performing, we're going to let you know.
>> But do you ever worry that they might
not be able to deal with the truth?
>> Then they can leave because the most
important skill in life is the skill of
working hard. And when you see the top
athletes, Ronaldo, Michael Jordan, of
course they're talented. But the thing
that's different about them is they work
their asses off. And that's a learned
skill. That's not something you're born
with. You may be smarter, more talented,
etc. But I'm not going to let anyone out
me. with that mentality. When you joined
Uber, it was losing 3 billion per year.
Now it generates 8.5 billion in free
cash flow every year. But it seems that
you were forged in such a way that you
were going to be relentless.
>> Yeah. And it really started with being
born in Iran with the Islamic Revolution
in 1978. We were not safe there. And I
remember at one point we had these
revolutionary guards come into the
backyard and bullets went through our
living room. So my family came to the US
to rebuild their lives.
>> You were 8 9 years old.
>> Yeah. And it really destroyed my dad.
Sorry me.
It's tough for me to talk about it.
It's okay.
All right, let me try again. Seeing that
has put me on a road where I just wanted
to make my family proud. So I studied
bioelect electrical engineering and then
my first job was investment banking and
I got to see the process of big
companies being built and then I had the
opportunity to take over Expedia
>> and in your 12 years as CEO Expedia
sales increased from 2.1 billion to 8.8
8 billion and you were the highest paid
CEO of a US tech company
>> and I left it all behind to get over
>> and I want to get into practical company
building how you would get that company
to work hard and create a culture of
continuous improvement and all that
stuff but there's alien that's arrived
amongst us which is AI now driving I
think is one of the biggest employees in
the world like as a profession
>> I mean we've got 9 and a half million
drivers and couriers on our platform
>> those drivers careers that you have will
be out of work being honest about the
situation what do the 9 million people
Guys, I've got a quick favor to ask you.
We're approaching a significant
subscriber milestone on this show, and
roughly 69% of you that listen and love
this show haven't yet subscribed for
whatever reason. If there was ever a
time for you to do us a favor, if we've
ever done anything for you, given you
value in any way, it is simply hitting
that subscribe button. And it means so
much to myself, but also to my team, cuz
when we hit these milestones, we go away
as a team and celebrate. And it's the
thing, the simple, free, easy thing you
can do to help make this show a little
bit better every single week. So, that's
a favor I would ask you. And um if you
do hit the subscribe button, I won't let
you down. And we'll continue to find
small ways to make this whole production
better. Thank you so much for being part
of this journey. Means the world. And uh
yeah, let's do this.
Darren, you lead one of the most
consequential, interesting, talked about
companies of my generation. It's worth
hundreds of billions of dollars last
time I checked and it's a it's a company
that I use every single day.
>> Thank you.
>> I've looked through your story. You were
the CEO of Expedia.
>> Mhm. at one point.
>> You're currently the CEO of Uber and
you've turned that company from a a
lossmaking company to a highly
profitable company and one that has
continued to be successful through such
a great time of transition. I
your story starts in a very interesting
way
>> and I was you know when I start doing
the research for guests sometimes I I I
think I come in with some kind of
presumption that I grew up in
California, you went to Stanford etc.
>> But that is not the case. Can you take
me to that earliest context so I can
understand
how and why you are the way that you
are?
>> Uh quite the quite the starting
questions but but but I'll try. I I
think that for me the events that shaped
my life and maybe a part of who I am
really started with my being born in
Iran and Iran at the time was
modernizing becoming a modern society
and my family built a pretty big
industrial company that that everyone
was quite proud of in Iran. We lost all
of that with the revolution in 1978
and my family had to come to the US to
rebuild their lives.
>> You had to come to the US.
>> We were not safe there. One of my uncles
actually was um a cabinet member of the
Shaw who had just been toppled. And at
one point, we had uh uh these
revolutionary guards come into the
backyard. They were actually going after
our neighbor's house. Uh and one of
their guns went off and bullets went
through our living room. Uh shattered
the glass in the living room. And at
that point, my mom's like, "We're not
safe being here." So, we had to come to
the US. And I do think that event to
some extent has shaped not just me but
my family in that the rebuilding of our
lives um of our uh economic lives to
some extent where we're all trying to
rebuild what we lost in Iran. Do
>> you look back on that and and can you
identify any sort of fingerprints that
were left on you from that time that
have defined you in a business capacity?
I think at my core I never feel safe,
you know, when the the experience of
losing everything and and for the kids I
I tell you it was fine for the kids, but
seeing my parents lose everything and
and it really destroyed my dad. You
know, it really
his losing his value to the world as he
saw it um really hurt his inner being.
And I do think to some extent seeing
that has put me on a road where I want
to rebuild. I want to make my family
proud. But at the same time I never that
feeling of having the floor, you know,
the rug pulled out of you of building
everything. That's a feeling that never
leaves you. I think I think Americans
underestimate
what this place represents in its
ideals, right? which is if you build
something it's yours. There's a rule of
law can't be taken away from you. That
is not true for the majority of the
population of the world. And so I think
for me there's a drive to build and at
the same time never ever ever taking
anything for granted, never being
satisfied because the minute you take
things for granted then that rug can be
pulled out from under you. on your
father. There was a moment where he a
couple of years, I think six years,
where he got trapped in Iran and wasn't
granted an exit visa.
>> Yes.
>> And I imagine at that time your mother
was raising you alone here in New York
City.
>> Yeah. In Terry Town, New York, 45
minutes north of New York City, but she
she went from a life of never having to
work to she had to become a salesperson
to make some money and she did it all
herself and she really stepped up. So I
think it shaped us. It was difficult in
some ways. I I miss my dad. I remember
when he left, he was like a giant
compared to me. And then when he came
back, it was my sophomore year at
college and he still saw me as a kid.
And so he wanted to drive me to uh to
college and and he did. And then he's
like he wanted to hang out. I'm like,
"Dad, can you get out of here? I want to
hang out with my kids." I was with my
friends. I was excited to go back to
school. And it was just it it was sad
seeing the change, you know, of a man
who had gotten older. Uh his time in
Iran was really tough on him. He had a
heart attack on the plane coming back.
So he was a diminished person to some
extent. Um but
it was great that I had many many years
with him, you know, since then.
>> When he was away, when he was trapped
around and wasn't able to exit,
>> your mother Lily
>> Yes.
referenced how you didn't mention him
much, but when he returned, you broke
down in tears.
>> Leah, no, don't be.
He was a very stoic man.
It's okay.
Sorry. He
passed away a couple years ago, so it's
tough for me to talk about it.
It's okay.
All right, let me try again. He was a
very stoked man. Um, so he kept it all
inside
and we were taught to do the same thing.
Uh, but we wrote letters together and
they're beautiful letters. He wrote
poetry. So I communicated with him in
Iran. But there's
um expression of feelings and kind of uh
frustration uh
were not something that my family did.
you know, you just dealt with a
situation. And so, yeah, I I think I
suffer from uh over stoism and then
breaking down every once in a while, as
you just saw.
>> It's a a familiar story of the the men
that I've interviewed that grew up with
that kind of sort of emotional composure
enforced and um modeled to them.
>> Yeah. I don't know if it was enforced
like it wasn't actually. Yeah. like we
were very loving family but my father
was very humble. Um he did not believe
that just because you're in a position
of power you should kind of project that
power you should communicate that to
everyone and there was a stoicism inside
my family which is don't complain you
know um so they it was it was a weird
combination of stoicism and love at the
same time.
>> How does um cuz I'm not a father yet.
>> Yes.
>> But I I'm approaching that.
Congratulations. Almost.
>> Yeah. Almost. Yeah. I've just proposed
to my fiance and we're, you know, we're
in the process now of, you know,
bringing children into the world
hopefully. And it's one of the things I
think a lot about, which is how do I
stop my own stoicism,
passing on to my children.
>> First of all, fatherhood, parenthood is
is so humbling. You have such a picture
in your mind as to how you're going to
raise your family, what your kids are
going to be like. And they just become
their own people and it's such a
beautiful process to see. And at first
there's this alarm. Oh my god, I'm
losing control. You know, I've I've done
everything. You've planned everything.
This is how I'm going to raise kids. But
then real life gets in the way. It is
absolutely exhausting. So, you probably
execute on 80% of your plan and you're
20% imperfect because you are exhausted
and you're working and you got a career.
Uh, or often some people do. And at some
point, you see these kids kind of move
off into this completely unexpected
territory. And there's a point for me it
was like I I'm a bit of a control freak.
So, I'm like, this is not good. They're
kind of doing their own thing. But then
you you step back and you're like this
is it's absolutely gorgeous what's
happening. So the advice that I would
just give in terms of being a parent is
just spend the time with the kids. You
know it is that is the magic is not what
you do um or or the particular tactics
but it's the investment in them and the
time spent with them and the rest you
know you can't control but what you can
control is kind of that connection. H I
um speaking of children, I went back and
looked through lots of different photos
of where you lived and where you grew up
to try and get a picture of your world
in an early context and all these photos
look incredibly incredible. I think that
was your fifth birthday.
>> Oh wow. I had hair back then.
>> You had a lot of hair.
>> My mom loved to dress us up in like
little doll outfits.
>> I can tell another one you lord. Look at
that. I'm definitely not going to do
that to my kids. age four in London.
Another photo of you.
>> You and your cousins there. Another
photo.
>> Family was everywhere for us.
>> And again, another one with a a
beautiful haircut there.
>> It was a great childhood. It was
amazing.
>> I spoke to your mom,
Lily.
>> I hope uh well, how it go.
We'll see. She said, I'll play the audio
file just so people can hear it. when he
was very little, he told me that he
wants to do something important in the
world and he said becoming wealthy is
not his priority but making a change is
>> I can't say I remember that conversation
but the
one of my early experiences that really
imprinted on me was we went to visit one
of my dad's It's factories, family
factories. And my dad was in charge of
designing factories, building them,
operating them. And the respect
that that population, the factory had
for him and the visit and how excited
they were that his family was visiting
was just really cool. And and the way
that he treated he knew everyone's name.
He treated them with such respect. It
just it really imprinted on me. There
was this care. It wasn't the boss is
coming and there's fear. And so for me
like that ability to build a life where
you have impact on a lot of people but
it's it's positive kind of building
impact. You have the broad respect of of
these folks. It really imprinted on me.
So I w I always wanted you know when we
came to the states
making money was important. I don't want
to kind of BS and say like, oh, I didn't
care about it because we lost
everything. And so my first job was
like, invest in banking. What's the goal
of investment banking? Have fun, but
make money, right? And so that was a
priority for me. But then as I matured
in life, as I knew I had safety in terms
of, okay, yes, I know I can do that. I
can make money. I can provide for my
family. I can support my mom and dad.
Then
building kind of an enterprise, having
that feeling that I saw with my father,
that connection with his team uh was
something that became really important
to me.
>> When you came to New York, you were 8, 9
years old.
>> 9 years old. Yes.
>> If I'd asked you at 9 years old, when
you arrived to New York, what you wanted
to do when you're older, what would you
have said?
>> I have no idea. I want to make my dad
proud.
That was it. I wasn't kind of motivated
for specific target at all. I just
wanted to make my family proud.
>> Why I want to make my dad proud?
He's always been an important figure in
uh in my life, you know, that there's
this um and and I think part of it is
that I never got to know him that well
as an individual, you know, cuz he was
obviously when I was younger, he was
working all the time. So, he would show
up once in a while for dinner, etc. We
always had family dinners together and
then he went away and then I worked. So,
I never really got to know the person
that he was, but I don't know there
there's kind of this sense of duty.
There's there's a hope that,
you know, he's he's somewhere or maybe
he's not someplace. But that making my
father proud has always been a strong
current undercurrent in my life.
>> So, you're 9 years old, you've arrived
in New York City. Um, you do end up
going off to college sometime later.
>> Yes.
>> I went to Brown University, studied
engineering there. How do you think
about that choice at that time and how
determinant that was of your trajectory
in your life? That decision to go to
that university and study that subject.
>> My father always said, "You can do
anything in your life as long as either
you're a doctor or an engineer." And I
picked engineering. I just loved the
problemolving aspect of engineering and
all the layers of equations etc. and
those equations being able to represent
something in real life and then
magically that something in real life
following what it should theoretically
like the problem solving aspect of
engineering fascinated me. I absolutely
loved it. Uh and I think it serves me to
this day.
>> Engineers make good CEOs.
>> Great CEOs. If you step back,
companies are just machines, right?
They're they're machines that are run by
people and over a period of time you
actually try to automate some of the
stuff that the people do and then you
send the people off to do new stuff that
can't be automated like we are
rulesbased like it's it's an organism
and it's a machine at the same time and
to some extent the job of the the the
CEO is engineering how do I set up the
company to achieve the goals that you
know I set for shareholders set for my
board sets sets for it. It's a giant
engineering problem and and to me that's
like fascinating the putting together
the pieces to get to what you perceive
to be the goal and one of the really
important things is you got to pick the
right goals.
>> Mhm.
>> Um that is one giant problem solving
engineering challenge and it's one of
the most fascinating parts of my job.
>> I want to get into that the the
practical company building how you
organize um an organization to be a well
functioning machine setting goals and
all that stuff. Um after after college
you go into investment banking for a
period of time.
>> Yeah I worked there for eight years in
risk arbitrage to begin with and then
mergers and acquisition advisory work as
well.
>> And that experience I I was reading
taught you about betting on people.
>> Yes.
>> Versus other what do you mean by betting
on people and why is that important?
>> It was uh it was actually a lesson that
I learned from Herbert Allen who was
running Allen and Company at the time.
It it was the the uh the Allen's uh
family started the company. And he
always told me and and at the time I
didn't really listen to him. He he
always said, "Do
always bet on people. Companies go.
There are good companies, bad companies,
but great people stay great all the
time." And one of the things that made
Allan and Company was really special.
You know, investment banking can be a
doggy talk sport, but Allan and company
really cultivated relationships with
people whom they perceived to be great
both in terms of potential and in terms
of character. And of all the investment
banks, that loyalty, that making a bet
on a person and then staying with them
through their whole careers is a pattern
of how that place works. Uh, and it's
definitely something that that I learned
there.
>> What is it about one's character that
makes them qualify as a great person?
>> You look for success, honor, loyalty,
people who will tell you what they're
going to do, whether it's good or bad,
and then follow through on their
promises.
>> Hard work. I'm surprised that wasn't
mentioned as
>> well. That comes with success. Okay.
Right. Talent and hard work. You put it
those two together.
>> And why did you leave Allen in company?
>> I left Allen because I met Barry Diller.
Uh, he was a client of mine. We got to
meet in a big kind of
deal uh unfriendly uh hostile tender
offer for Paramount at the time. It's
that there's another one happening I
guess for Paramount uh now as we speak.
And he was the one person I thought I
was going to be Allen Lifer. I thought I
was going to be there forever. My older
brother Cave is an Allen Lifer. He has
it's the only job he's had in his life.
But Barry was the one person who I
thought, you know, if I get a chance to
work for this person, I'm I'm I'm going
to jump at it. And I did.
>> Why? Why Barry?
>> He He's spectacular. I mean, he was
spectacular. He is spectacular. A doer,
you know. He he I I met him in a
circumstance where he lost. It was it
was this giant hostile tender offer.
Bids going back and forth between uh the
the winner Viacom and and Barry.
Ultimately, Barry stepped away and we
were planning an announcement, you know,
and you can imagine all these like fancy
PR people
sitting around a table. How do we
present a loss as a win, right?
>> So, he bid for a company. He didn't get
it.
>> He didn't get it and and he walked away.
He didn't get it cuz he walked away,
which in hindsight was a was a mistake.
He could have paid more. Uh and then in
the release where he walked away, uh I
think the release was they won, we lost.
next. And he was a constant motion
machine like day one, we lost, next,
what's next? Let's go. And that's the
kind of person I wanted to work for.
>> In business, losing is part of the game.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. But then calling
it out, you know, not bullshitting, not
like, oh, we tried our best and the
circumstances. They won, we lost. Next,
it's okay.
>> Does it matter how you lose?
>> Absolutely it does. that absolutely it
does it it's and and I find companies
guilty of two things like one is
ignoring losses like papering over
losses etc right and then sometimes
being obsessive about the loss you know
inspecting it what happened let's do a
summary let's meet what went wrong etc
and and you know for me it's somewhere
in the middle which is recognize why you
lost recognize that you lost say it
because it's important to say it,
analyze it, but then move on. Like,
let's move on. And the next time you
hope to
have learned some kind of judgment to
avoid that kind of a loss, but it
doesn't mean you're going to avoid
losing at all. Like, if you're not
taking shots, you're not missing. You're
you're not losing. So, for me, it's
constantly moving and taking your shots,
losing, learning next, losing, learning
next. That constant motion is what I
want to see. Um that constant motion and
learning is what excites me.
>> This is business advice but also life
advice generally because a lot of people
um who I meet who come up to me and ask
me questions about things often ask
questions that sound a lot like what you
just said. It's dealing with rejection,
dealing with taking an L, and how that L
then stays with them sometimes for a
decade, sometimes for 15 years, and and
holds them back, hurts their confidence,
means that they don't take it any more
shots, and this can cause a sort of a
downward confidence spiral.
>> Totally. And and listen, I'm I'm talking
a big game, but I would tell you in my
personal life, I can't deal with
rejection. I have a really hard time
dealing with rejection. Professional
life, no problem whatsoever. So it's
like in the end we're all humans after
all.
>> You have a a difficulty dealing with
rejection in your personal
>> very much. Yeah.
>> What kind of rejection?
>> Any kind of rejection conflict like it's
it's something that has been uh that I
fought my whole life which is because I
was one of the younger cousins because I
was a youngest brother. I just kind of
didn't have rights.
So I was I went with the flow. And going
with the flow means you're going with
the current etc. I didn't cause trouble
and that has followed me in my personal
life. In my professional life, I don't
have as much trouble there. I guess my
professional life to some extent is a
mask because I get to be aggressive. I
get to lose, etc. It's something that
Sid, my wife, has really helped me with,
but it is something in my personal life
that generally I'm conflict avoidant.
>> You're conflict avoidant in your
personal life. Interesting.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Hm. That's not
good in a relationship.
>> No. No. That's why that's why Sid's
helping me out. I'm much better now. I'm
much better. But it's
>> it's when I take those issues on, I have
to fight myself.
>> There's some core, you know, if if you
and I were having an issue. Yeah.
>> And I was sitting down with you and
saying, "Hey, I'm not I'm not happy
about X or Y." I can feel there's a core
of me saying, "Just let it go." But
that's how resentment builds and that's
how relationships um over a long period
of time start moving the wrong way. So
it is something that is at my core but I
actively fight uh and I'm getting better
at it but I'm still on a learning
journey there. I'll tell you that
>> eventually you go on to becoming the CEO
of Expedia after um there was a couple
of CEOs that came before you but you
became the third and
>> took that company on. Very different job
going from investment banking to being a
CEO.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Now there there was a
journey there because I went from
banking to running deals and I knew that
I knew that I I liked how companies
worked. The thing that I liked about
investment banking was that I got to see
a lot there. I got to see really smart
people, really cool companies build, but
I couldn't go along with that journey. I
was jealous of the journey that these
CEOs were were moving on. So then when
M&A was a bridge to work at a company
and build uh the company, I moved from
M&A to CFO, chief financial officer
because that's uh that's that's to some
extent finance, but it's also being the
CEO's partner and helping the CEO build.
So I I always knew the direction that I
want to go in, which is hey, at some
point I want to actually be an operator.
And then I had the opportunity to take
over Expedia. the CEO at the time, Eric
Blashford, kind of said, "Yeah, big
company thing, not for me." So, he
resigned. And honestly, Barry didn't
have an alternative. Who
>> was the owner of Barry was the CEO and
chairman of IA, which was a parent
company of what became Expedia, I
travel. The head of IC Travel resigned.
I raised my hand. I said, "Maybe I could
do it." Barry was desperate. He had no
one else. So he promoted me to be CEO of
IA travel and IC travel was going
through some difficult times. So we spun
it off as at at Expedia. So that's when
I became the CEO of Expedia, the public
company and I moved to the Netherlands
of of uh Seattle.
>> In your job just before you took on that
role as CEO, you were buying businesses.
So M&As, mergers and acquisitions, you
were buying companies. Yes.
>> What are some of the companies that you
bought?
>> Oh, we bought a lot of companies. Uh we
bought ticket master. Uh we bought
match.com
uh bought Expedia Hotels.com and and it
was all about the theme that Barry and I
were uh fascinated with was the movement
of commerce online. You know, it was it
was during that uh time. It was the late
late 90s, early 2000. And and we saw it
happening with our very own eyes really
with home shopping, right? It was it's a
flat screen. It was a television and you
were offering products and people were
calling up buying those products
electronically
and just the medium changed. The medium
changed from a TV screen to an internet
screen and instead of calling you could
use uh HTTP
uh and so while the medium changed we
kind of saw this opportunity to take
advantage of the of the change of
platform. So match.com essentially in
the olden days you know you had online
dating but you would call a number and
you'd be like my name is Da and I'm 6'2
and this you describe yourself and you
hear other kind of uh recordings and you
would get matched up based on someone
who seemed nice
>> and all of that just moved online. That
was what Batch.com was. Same thing with
Ticket Master. You know in the olden
days you would go to a Tower of Records.
Have you ever been to a Tower of
Records? You're too Yeah. So there were
these things called record stores and
they also had a desk where they would
sell concert tickets. So you would
either call for a concert ticket or you
would physically go and buy one.
Amazing. And there were lines, Tower
Record lines. What's that?
>> And all of that exactly moved online.
And same thing with travel, right? You
would call a travel agent and so all of
there was this movement of retail and
phone commerce to online commerce. And
we identified the early players to make
that shift and personals, ticketing,
travel were the ones that we went with
went for because at the time Amazon was
doing everything else like physical
fulfillment. So what we were going for
were essentially electronic transactions
that did not require physical
fulfillment and that was travel because
you know it's a virtual good ticketing
uh match.com which which was personal.
So there was a pattern around the
madness so to speak but we went out and
bought all these companies. It was a
really great time.
>> I've got two questions that emerge
there. One one is again I'm really
interested to understand how you would
look for talent or how what how you
think about what a great company is. Are
there like we we looking at the company
culture? Were we looking at the
founders? Was there something else? Was
it the profitability? And the other one
is just really intrigued as to what this
period of your life and thereafter
taught you about how to spot opportunity
and transition cuz that is a
transitional moment of technology. And I
think there is a certain pattern
recognition one can develop as to like
know what to bet on in these moments of
transition where there's huge
skepticism. The internet's going to be
anything. It's a so two questions. One
is like how do you spot great companies
and then the second is like patterns in
transition.
>> So they're I'd say that they're related
which is um we would spot great
companies
just by observing who is taking the lead
in these transitions. You know these
transitions are difficult. You can't
predict exactly where things are going,
how quickly they're going, how much
should you invest, what's a return, what
uh what the what the market how large is
the market going to be. But there were
companies that were emerging as the
leaders and we would just I just
identify the leaders and call call these
folks up and say I want to come in and
talk to you. Like that was that was it.
And to some extent it's a
self-reinforcing cycle which is yes the
great management teams and the great
founders were the ones who were able to
identify the opportunity and hit that
opportunity faster than anyone else
recognize that opportunity and execute
on that opportunity faster than anyone
else. So to some extent the companies
who were in the lead of course had the
best management teams and had the best
founding teams. And when those two
things matched, that was when we jumped.
And then the the last thing I would tell
you in terms of these pattern uh
recognitions is that
we never completed a successful deal
because we got the company cheap. We
actually overpaid for every single great
company that we bought, but we overpaid
based on what the market thought at the
time,
>> not what the reality turned out to be.
So I do think one of the kind of pieces
of pattern recognition with me is just
humans
think about
success and transitions in a linear way
because time is linear.
>> Would you someone that doesn't just they
think of it going like this?
>> Yeah. You know it's it's the everything
kind of moves this way, right? Your your
schedule is relatively linear, right?
It's you sleep seven hours a day. Like
your life is a linear life. But company
and company success and company
momentum, especially with new
technologies where if there's a
technology that's truly better than the
other technology within the virtual
world, there's absolutely no friction
holding it back, the these companies
move in an exponential way in terms of
their growth and ultimately in terms of
their value. So whereas most people kind
of see things they they when they
project out to the to the future they
see this what actually happens is this
and that's where the opportunity is.
It's the it's the spread between the
hockey stick and kind of the straight
line.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh and it's very difficult for people to
process that. And so that was, you know,
those were the companies that we
identified that hockey stick. And online
travel was a hockey stick, personals was
a hockey stick, ticketing was a hockey
stick.
>> I heard about the is it Jeans paradox?
>> Yes.
>> Which I think kind of sort of overlaps
with what you're saying there. When
things become easier, faster, cheaper,
people do them not incrementally more,
but ex like exceptionally more often. I
mean that that's the definition of Uber
and we can get to that at some point was
uh originally it was built as a black
cab service so to speak a black car
service.
>> Can you tell me that's that where it
came from? Because a lot of people
history has now moved forward that
people have forgotten the story of how
it came to be.
>> Now to some extent it was it well to a
large extent it was that the founding
was was before me but it was um uh
Garrett Camp who was one of the founders
had this idea uh and I think it was born
in Paris. It was like a snowy day in
Paris and they couldn't find a black car
and it was a bunch of young young tech
guys and like how cool would it be to
like pick up my phone and call a black
car and that was the the core idea which
is hey you can use your phone to call a
black car he brought on uh Travis
Kalanick Travis was the operator and and
the founder and to to your point and
Jeban's paradox to some extent people
thought well what's the size of the
black car market place and it was a
couple billion dollars or what's the
size of the taxi industry and it was uh
more than a couple of billion dollars.
But what they didn't see at the time was
that as you improve the con if you
radically make something either more
convenient or cheaper, the market
expands beyond how you calculate it. So
the Uber size and scale now is way
beyond the original marketplace of black
cars and or taxis. It it's the company
the company today is a result of Jeban's
paradox
>> timing.
We often um we often don't think much
about the luck of timing. Luck is an
interesting word to use, but how
important timing is and other sort of
foundational factors are in enabling a
company like Uber to exist. When you
think about the timing of Uber, what are
the sort of the foundations that made it
possible?
>> Well, it was it was a mobile revolution.
It was um mobile data technology, the
iPhone coming together. In the early
days, one of the geniuses of Tra of
Travis was he would hire these market
managers who would be GMs of new cities
that they would expand into. and they
would literally go to the city with a
bag full of iPhones and give away
iPhones to black car drivers to get them
to come on Uber because at the time a
lot of them didn't have you know they
they didn't have smartphones so to
speak. So the onset of the of the
smartphone was that kind of that
beautiful magic of timing coming
together and then aggressiveness of that
founding team to understand that there's
a pattern here and I'm going to
replicate that pattern all the world and
raise as much capital as I have to to
get there faster than anyone else. That
was the magic. But it was, you know,
again, it's, yes, there's luck in there,
but if that founding team hadn't been as
aggressive in, you know, blit scaling,
which is a term that folks used, uh, all
around the world, company wouldn't be
what it is today.
>> Your transition out of investment
banking into Expedia, CFO, then CEO. You
know, listen, there's a stereotype in
business that um investment bankers and
CFOs don't necessarily make the best
CEOs because of
>> they might stereotypically
>> over financialize
>> over financial maybe be less riskaverse,
maybe be less, you know, those kinds of
things. And when I spoke to Barry, he
did say the following. I'll just play it
for you because it's uh better coming
from him. H
>> he was not an actual leader uh because
he had uh his career up until then has
had been on the financial side of
things. So he really had not yet had the
experience or opportunity to manage
people. That came in a difficult way to
him and he mastered it. It didn't take
him all that long. He mastered how to
become a leader and he mastered how to
take ultimate responsibility for a
company.
>> Yeah, it was um growing up under Barry
was was and and by the way I I wouldn't
be where I am today without not him as a
mentor because he's not like a mentoring
kind of guy but him as my leader
learning from him. But I say that the
experience that really really shaped me
uh as it relates to Expedia was I did
come in as more of a financial leader.
our
leadership at Expedia.com failed. I
hired a I had to fire the first uh
person. I hired a second person.
Complete disaster. And so I was 0 for
two in terms of hiring for our largest
business. This business was 50% of our
profits and I was 0 for two in uh in
hiring. And so I went to Barry and the
board and I said, 'Well,
if I miss hiring the third person to run
the biggest parts of our business, then
you should fire me. Barry quickly
agreed, yes, of course we will. So I
said, obviously, I don't understand
enough about the job to find the right
person. So I think I've got to take the
job myself for 6 months to a year to
understand what what is it that the job
entails for me to then go and and find
that person. And so for what turned out
to be I think it was five or six years I
ran both the holding company Expedia
Inc. which is a public company and I ran
Expedia.com. I was president of the
largest part of the company. That
experience taught me my operating
troughs. That experience actually taught
me how is it that you operate a company?
How is it that you run something? And
that's a very different skill set from
capital allocation and you know all the
financial uh wizardry that people embark
on. That's important. But the what I
discovered was operating a company,
leading a company, organizing it,
operating it, setting up the goals,
getting the right team together. That's
the part of the job that I loved. So it
it it took me a while to get there. Like
my whole life, my whole early career was
in this financial sector. which I
enjoyed, but I didn't find my true love,
which is operations and running
companies and running a technology
company until way, way later in my
career. Uh, and I think to some extent
now I've got both. I've got that
financial part cuz it has to work. But
the operations and the leadership part
of the business is something that that I
love.
And watching Barry take responsibility,
take shots, go against the grain, um, as
aggressively as he consistently did, I
think has made me a much better operator
than what the counterfactual would be if
I had another boss.
>> Three months into that role, the head of
HR told you that you were scaring
people.
>> I've forgotten about that.
>> I think that was my job. Yeah.
What's the context there?
>> You know the context was that
I first of all turnarounds in technology
are really hard. Uh we were talking
about the momentum thing where momentum
is positive. In the technology sector if
momentum turns negative it is remarkably
difficult to turn it around. You know
Yahoo is hanging on but it was the great
company and you see where it is now.
It's brutal when you get it wrong. And
it always takes longer than you think.
And it goes to, you know, what I was
talking about linear versus exponential.
Just like the curves up are exponential,
curves down are exponential as well. The
first couple of years look bad, but
they're not that bad.
>> But you know in your mind that 10 years
from now, it's going to be a [__]
disaster. Mhm.
>> So what I saw with Expedia was a
technology company
whose technology engine was broken.
Codebase was old, had not been
reinvested in. Technology leadership was
coasting.
And that really alarmed me. And one of
the things that I learned from Barry in
terms of leadership is
that when you know a bell is rung, when
when you when you see something, when
you see a pattern, you have to act. You
can't wait for a second. So in my mind,
once I figured out, oh my god, this
really is a turnaround. This isn't like
a company that I've got to tune. this
company if I don't move and move hard
and fast is is going to start on that
exponential decay curve. I had to move
quickly and at that point and and I am
one of the skills that I learned from
Barry is transparency. It's like
whenever he wanted to understand an
issue he wanted to go to the source. He
didn't want a summary and it didn't
matter where that source was. Is it a
junior analyst or a president? He wanted
to hear from the source because what he
didn't want to lose is lose the fidelity
of the issue. You know, when there's an
issue here and then it goes through the
analyst and the associate and the vice
president and an SVP and whatever, by
the time it's summarized for you as the
CEO, it's just it's lost everything. And
usually their levels are like, "Hey, do
we really want to tell them that? Why
don't we phrase it this way, etc." So
your whole life as a CEO is kind of a
it's a version of the world that your
team wants you to see. And if you got a
good team, usually it has more to do
with reality than not, but you are
subject to your team and the information
flow that that gets to you. And so Barry
always wanted to go to the source. He
would just cut through levels, cut
through levels, get to
the core of the idea, and then once he
did, he would move and he would move
fast. And for me, I've kind of I have
held on to that, but I've also turned it
the other way, which is
one of the ways in which I can depend on
getting the real [__] from you is my
being honest with you, right? and and
human beings are good [__] you
know, kind kind of meter so so to speak.
And and when you're the CEO and you're
talking to your staff and you're giving
all the, you know, the business talk and
we're doing this, but the last quarter
we had some certain challenges and this
and that, they see you bullshitting them
and so why the hell should they tell you
the truth, right? if their if their boss
isn't telling them the good stuff, why
should they give the good stuff back to
the boss? So, for me, it it was almost
like a self-defense mechanism that as a
boss, I'm going to tell you what's going
on because that's the only way I can
drag the hard truths back from you. Cuz
otherwise, you're going to filter
yourself. You're gonna be like, I don't
want Dart to know this happened.
>> But do you ever worry that they might
not be able to deal with the truth?
>> Then they can leave. And and I think
that that's so I think that's what my
head of HR was saying. I was scaring the
[__] out of people cuz I'm like we have
a real problem here and we've got to
come together and and I think that that
you know there's a I was a good
decision-m framework for me is um if I
make a mistake where do I want to make
the mistake on? Right? And so if I want
to if I'm going to heir with my company,
I'm going to heir in telling the truth
and potentially scaring someone away.
I'll take that because if that person
doesn't want to face the truth, if he or
she's not up for the fight, then they
should go someplace else. They can have
a good time. I'm sure they can have a
good career, etc. So for me as a leader,
I've always always believed in
transparency partially because then I
think you attract the right people.
>> Mhm. and uh partially because then I'm
gonna get the good information so to act
on. Usually the failures I see with CEOs
aren't because they made the wrong
decisions. It's because they were
getting the wrong data that led to the
wrong decisions. So it's incredibly
important as a leader of any
organization for you to build the
channels and build the kind of culture
that surfaces problems to you quickly.
And then for me too, you always have to
have your random direct channels. You
know, the the again, if you think about
organizations as organisms,
they have their own incentives. And so
my staff's incentive is to control the
the the information that gets to me, not
because they're bad people. It's just
their job because I can get overwhelmed.
Who do I meet with? What's my schedule?
You know, is this person worthy of
meeting the CEO? And for me, my fight is
I just set up a bunch of random [__]
I'll meet with, you know, engineers four
levels down consistently because usually
they've got the kind of personality
where they don't give a [__] They'll
tell me anything and everything and they
like putting the CEO down. That's great.
>> They like putting the CEO down.
>> It's, you know, engineers often, you
know, don't like authority and code is
like the biggest authority buster. It's
like the truth truth. Uh, so I find a
lot of engineers have a personality
which is, yeah, I'm gonna tell you what
it's like. Like I'm, you know, they they
they their value is in something else,
but often they don't. There's a kind of
a disrespect for authority that I love.
>> I found in my companies that there's
sometimes like a 24year-old young girl
who will just tell me the truth.
>> Yeah.
>> And she's the one you want to hang out
with.
>> She's the one I always go and ask for an
opinion.
>> Absolutely. And so that that's you've
got to have your your own channels, but
the way to the way to get transparency
from your team is first first you've got
to give it to them.
>> Was the culture hardworking when you
arrived? Could you use the word coasting
to describe some of the team when you
arrived at Expedia?
>> Medium. I think the company had been
successful for a long time and uh had
coasted on that success to some extent.
So I needed to turn over the team turn
over like the entire team very very
quickly and get some hungry people in
there. the entire team.
>> Almost the entire team. Yeah. Yeah. It
was uh it was rough going for a while,
but then you have kind of
missionoriented people who are trying to
prove themselves. Um and it's part of
the renewal that every company has to go
through and we turned it around. It was
it was tough going, but we really turned
around and that was when I kind of I
learned, hey, my my love is running
[__] It's great. It's the best part of
my job.
>> How did you get that company to work
hard? Because there's so many people
listening right now that are in a
company that might have been successful,
might be two decades in
>> and this is an ultimate question in like
executive management. How do you turn
around the culture of a big or even even
200 people?
>> It's very difficult. Um and sometimes
the shortcut is just change of people
like it's very easy to say oh you have
values this and that. So it's it's
finding the people who you believe will
line up with your cultural mechanisms or
how you work or your values
and then embodying those values and
those mechanisms as examples and then
making sure that your team embodies
those values and imbuss down the down
the organization. So part of working
hard is like, you know, sending emails
to the team on a Saturday and if I don't
get a response on Saturday, sending them
an email on Sunday with a question mark.
What's going on? You know, I think at
Expedia in hindsight,
we we worked intensely and and and we
went hard, but but not as hard as I like
because Expedia was we were selling
vacations, right? It was it was the the
product that we were selling was about
turning yourself off. And so we did talk
about work life balance. Uh and in
hindsight
at Uber, I don't, you know, you come to
Uber, you're going to work your ass off.
We're going to be really demanding. If
you're not performing,
we're going to let you know, and if you
don't fix it, we're going to push you
out. But while it will be incredibly
hard,
you will have real agency at the
company. We're a big company, but
individuals can make a big difference.
And it's a company that's making a
difference in the world. You're going to
learn so much. And while you will have
worked hard, you're going to have a
great time. But this is don't come here
if you want to coast. And I'm very clear
about that. And I should have been more
clear at Expedia, but we were selling
vacations, so I couldn't be quite that
clear.
>> New year always has a strange energy to
it because people start talking about
their goals, fresh starts, and new
habits. But the reality is that most
people carry the same ideas they had
last year into the new year. I'm guilty
of that, too. And they still don't end
up doing anything with them. And I get
why. Starting something new, especially
if it's a business or a project, is
overwhelming. Before you start, you're
looking for the perfect moment and to be
the perfect version of yourself. When
really what matters most is taking that
first step. If you've had an idea for a
while, a product, a store, something
you've been sitting on, our sponsor,
Shopify, makes it easy to get started
because you can build your store, sell
on socials, take payments, use AI tools,
and manage everything all in one place.
So, if 2026 is the year you finally back
yourself, go to shopify.co.uk/bartlet
and start selling. And you can sign up
for a $1 per month trial right now, too.
Just go to shopify.co.uk/ UK /bartlet. I
promise you, you don't need to have it
all figured out. You just need to start.
In your 12 years as CEO, Expedia stock
rose 550%.
And sales increased 400% from 2.1
billion to 8.8 billion. And you were the
highest paid CEO of a US tech company
with a pay of 94.1 million.
>> I left it all behind to go to Uber.
>> You left it all behind. There was a big
options packet that I never vested, but
it's all good.
>> It was a great run.
>> I'm so I'm so intrigued about this point
of hard work because I think 10 years
ago saying what you just said was very
taboo.
>> Yes.
>> It feels to be more invoked.
>> We're freed now. YES.
>> YOU'RE FREED NOW.
>> YES. YES, INDEED. It's it I've I've
gotten um you know, sometimes people ask
you the question, uh what advice would
you give to young people? And to me, the
most important skill in life is a skill
of working hard. And it's not a skill
you can't just like decide you're going
to do it. And I think way too many many
people, you know, focus on should be
should should you be a computer
programmer or a doctor or study the
liberal arts now that anyone can vibe
code? Just learn to work hard. And it
is, you know, the the when you see the
top athletes,
of course, they're talented and, you
know, their talent level is world
levels, but the thing that changes that
that's different about the elite
athletes than the non- elite athletes,
and I'm talking elite, is they work
their asses off. They're disciplined.
They're structured. They're relentless.
You know, look at Ronaldo, look at
Michael Jordan, etc. That's the same
thing is true in all of life. It's true
in business. It's true in personal life.
And so for me
with my kids, I just want to teach them
how to work hard. And and for me, like
growing up, I as a banker, as an
executive, I'm not going to let anyone
out me. And if that's true, then they
may be smarter, more talented, etc. But
I'm not going to let anyone outwork me.
And I think that that's a huge advantage
that you have. over a period of time
that advantage compounds and I want them
our company like I want Uber to be an
incredibly hardworking company
>> comes at a cost though working hard
>> yes it it comes at a trade-off and and
we we believe in flexibility so people
confuse kind of lack of flexibility to
working hard you can work hard and at
the same time you can have flexibility
so if you want to have dinner with your
family and I'm I'm religious about
having dinners with my family when I'm
in town you know 6:00 to 8 uh absolutely
spend that I'm with my family, but at,
you know, 9:30 p.m. I'm checking emails.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. When I wake up at 5:30 and a.m.
I'm checking emails. So, of course,
there are trade-offs. And, you know,
life is about trade-offs.
>> I think one of the most important things
I've learned from interviewing CEOs and
generally we've gone through a
transition of COVID and remote work and
then come back into like everyone's in
the office again is actually the most
important thing is what you just said,
which is being honest with people so
that they can make decisions for
themselves in their lives. I think the
the thing that one might describe as
toxic is when you say something
publicly, but then when they arrive,
it's a completely different deal. But
what you're doing is you're being honest
and you're therefore allowing people to
make decisions for themselves in their
own lives.
>> And I'm allowing them to be honest back
to me.
>> Yeah. And you're a that's a that's a
company culture that someone like me
would be attracted to.
>> Absolutely.
>> But there's lots of people listening
that couldn't think of anything worse.
>> And that's okay.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> There are plenty of companies that they
could find or plenty of causes that they
can find. It's fine. You said learn to
work hard. Learn
>> it's a it's a skill.
>> Really?
>> Yes. Of course it is because you you've
got to the idea of just staying focused
on something, not being discouraged by
failing, trying over and over again and
just working harder than others. It's
not something you can turn on and off. I
see it in people all the time. There's
just like this grim determination. like
we uh at Uber that there's actually
saying it's it's it's inside one of our
values. Embrace the grind, you know,
embrace it. That's
that's a learned skill. That's not
something you're born with. Maybe maybe
there's an element that you're born
with.
>> Have you ever seen someone who isn't a
hard worker become a really hard worker,
an exceptionally hard worker?
>> Ah, that's a good question. No, no one
doesn't occur to me. Have you?
>> No. I I heard I think it might have been
maybe Brian Chesky Airbnb or Elon say
that he's never seen someone who wasn't
a hard worker become a really hard
worker.
>> That's interesting.
>> And this is why
>> I'm trying to come up with someone
failing so far.
>> And maybe I might posit that it's
somewhat to do with you know these
photos that you have in front of you,
your childhood, your early context which
you didn't choose. I also working hard
here. But yeah,
>> but that you were forged in such a way
that you were going to be
>> ruthless. So relentless is the word I
meant.
>> Yeah. I I mean ruthless to myself.
>> Mhm.
>> Relentless. Relentless is right. You
know, I think I think at one point Jeff
Bezos was going to call Amazon
relentless. That was uh he was thinking
about that being the name of the
company,
>> right? It's it's just and and that is
when I see successful technology
companies and especially technology
companies there is this relentlessness
about them like at Uber we have lots of
different groups that are trying to do
different things but each and every team
is built and targeted on optimizing and
improving their own particular function.
There isn't a piece of the company that
is not improving every single day. And
if they're not improving fast enough,
someone else is going to take their
place and going to improve it. So as a
as an organism, every part of the
company, whether it's a payments team in
terms of new payments types or uh
payment success or the fraud team or the
mobile app team in terms of conversions,
etc. Every team is set up in and
organized for and gold on improving
everything that they do. So the whole
company in small ways is constantly
improving never ever stopping and it is
that relentless nature of business and
and the minute and it's not good enough
to get better. We have to get better
faster than our competitors because our
competitors are all getting better as
well. So it's it's basically like who
can adapt faster to either the reality
of the market as it is today or the
prediction of the market as you see it
tomorrow. And it's the speed of change
and it's identification of the
opportunity. Those are the two factors I
think that are most important. Um, and
the speed of change, you know, if you
can work fast, you're kind of
accelerating time. You know, every one
shot that you take, I can take two
shots. I've got more time than you do.
And then, of course, there's identifying
the opportunity, going after it. Those
are the two things you really have to
get right. If you're taking two shots,
not only you going to get two data
points of information, but you're also
increasing your probability of having a
successful shot by like 100%.
>> Shots on goal. Just shots on goal.
>> How do you create a culture of
continuous improvement? Because
successful companies, as you kind of
highlighted earlier, they become
complacent with their victories and they
like to take some time off and celebrate
and
>> you know, we high five and then and then
we chill and then actually the studies
show they did this big meta analysis
where they looked at successful
companies and they showed that they
become risk adverse.
>> Totally. because they lost a version.
They have something to lose now. So just
protect.
>> I think the good news to some extent
with Uber is that we've always been a
company that has had a chip on its
shoulder. You know, the company had a
chip on it shoulder when it was founded
and had to like fight taxi unions for
its very existence. Uh and then the
disaster happened with Travis leaving
and then a new CEO coming in at the
time. That was a really really difficult
time. Then we went through a period of
COVID which was again a disaster for the
company but ultimately prepared us to to
do better. Then people saying you know
it was a tough IPO. Uh Uber is never
going to get profitable and today we're
incredibly successful but we've got the
challenge and the opportunity of AI and
autonomous. So we've always been a
company that has been I would say
underestimated
and that feeds into our culture that
this is a we are a hungry company and I
do think we're sometimes
guilty of getting complacent in little
ways and I have a leadership team that
when they see complacency more often
than not than not they identify it and
they get it the hell out. It's it's a
team that is not satisfied, that's
always driving and I love that about us.
>> How does one balance enjoying the
success and the accomplishments? I mean,
you've turned this company around,
highly profitable company. Everyone that
I've spoken to, many of our mutual
friends have talked lovingly about the
impact you've had on the business. I
mean, the numbers speak for themselves.
When you joined Uber, Uber was losing
2.5 to 3 billion per year. Now, it
generates 8.5 billion in free cash flow
every year.
How do you get people to
>> 9.8 in the last year, but
>> you you're counting 9.8. Okay.
Incredible.
>> Celebrate. Chill.
>> Sure. Well, you you can you can
celebrate or not chill.
>> Okay. How
>> you can do we we take those moments. We
do c it's cool to run a company. That's
so important. It's cool to run a company
that's hitting record after record after
record. And we do celebrate those
records and we do celebrate those teams.
Maybe not enough. And again, it goes to
like what what what mistake would you
rather make? I'd I'd rather make the
mistake of celebrating a little bit too
little and kind of being a little pissed
off about life in general and pushing.
But um we we take our moments, but the
the the success itself, I don't know,
succeeding is almost a celebration in
and of itself. And and when you're
succeeding in such a competitive field,
I just find a deep sense of satisfaction
there. Uh and I think my team does, too.
How do you get the team to take take
those risks that they need to take? Is
there something you do you like
incentivize them on the amount of shots
they take? How do you do that? One is
they're always moving fast. That's what
we do. We push we're constantly pushing
the pace of the company in terms of
execution. So I think that helps. But
but I do think that there's there's a
mechanism that we talk now about that
I've talked to a team about taking smart
risks. I think you're absolutely right
which is as companies get bigger and
more successful they tend to become more
riskaverse
and it should be the exact opposite
because you can take more risks you can
make more mistakes because you've got
kind of this 9.8 8 billion of cash flow
to protect yourself against some of
those mistakes. So I have definitely in
the past I would say two years pushed
the team actively to push the envelope
in terms of risk. Don't be defensive, be
offensive, etc. And it comes from my
challenging the teams, my talking about
it, setting examples of sometimes
failing and then saying it's okay,
moving on. Uh and then sometimes my
taking decisions that are seen as more
risky than not. that setting the example
then allows the company to follow.
>> So if I was in one of your teams, what
how do you think about goal setting for
me?
>> Um all the teams have different goals,
business goals. The ads team has to
drive at technologydriven incremental ad
uh dollars per year andor customer
satisfaction uh customer NPS etc. So
every team has its own goals uh and they
organize against those goals and they
execute those goals and they're
religiously tracked. It's the best
mechanism that we have. I just wish that
there was a better one because the art
of the goal setting becomes the issue
which is are you setting the right
goals? Are they too ambitious? Are they
not ambitious enough? And sometimes
people can game the system. So we use it
but I can't tell you that it's perfect.
What about you talked earlier about
values. A lot of companies go and do an
offsite and they write some words on a
words on a white on a wall and they say
ambition, enthusiasm, courage, whatever.
What do you think of that sort of
corporate habit of go values and stuff?
>> We went through the exercise, failed the
first time, succeeded the second time.
We and and when it and we failed when it
first came to Uber, obviously there was
a view that there we needed a cultural
reset of the company and so it was very
important for me to go and inspect the
culture of the company and
change it. It was a statement and the
culture had I think some cool stuff in
there, some cool ideas in there. Like
for example, there was one value that
was um to stepping and the idea of toe
stepping is is what you and I talked
about earlier, which is we want to
challenge each other within the
organization. And so if I have to step
on your toes and tell you something that
you don't want to hear, I'm allowed to
even though it hurts you uh because the
truth is more important. So sometimes
the truth hurts and that's okay. That
was the idea of toestepping. And what
happened was sometimes those values
became weaponized where to stepping
whose spirit came from a place of we
want to speak the truth became an excuse
to be a jerk.
>> Right? So the values in and of
themselves can be great or
terrible based on how you execute on on
those values. When I first came in, we
had to redo the values. And I was there
there's a saying by um Jeff Bezos that
that I love, which is like the the
values of the company almost they they
they appear the value system of the
company appears to some extent. You
don't if you say thou shalt, you're
going to fail because the company shall,
>> right? And the approach that we first
took was that we will actually get the
value system. We had we had a vote for
all the employees in the company. What
values do you think should be part of
the new Uber, etc. We took all the
signal and then we edited it and came up
with a new list of of values. And there
was one value that I wrote myself. It
was mine and it was do the right thing.
Period. It wasn't crowdsourced. It was
just that. And and usually with these
values, you're like there's a whole
explanation and people are like, "Well,
what does do the right thing period
mean?" like you have to figure it out.
And for me, it it was a message to the
whole company, which was if you work at
Uber, you have a responsibility and I'm
not going to tell you exactly what to
do. So, use your judgment. And it's our
expectation that you use your judgment
to do the right thing. And sometimes
doing the right thing, it's not clear.
Should I go after my business goal?
Should I compromise on a business goal?
Because safety is in question. Of
course, you should. Safety comes first
before business, etc. But we were
putting that weight and that
responsibility in uh within the
employees. But the rest of the value
system that was kind of crowdsourced, it
was forgettable because it was the kind
of stuff that you passion, ambition,
teamwork, like what company doesn't
believe in teamwork? Give me a break. So
we uh Nikki uh Krishna Murphy who runs
uh people she pushed me to reset the
values four or five years in by then I
felt like I did have a right to have a
point of view I'd been there we weren't
quite done with the turnaround etc but I
was a part of the company and then we
came up with a value set which is
different you know there's uh our one of
our values by the way go get it was the
only one that survived
No, no, sorry. Uh, do the right thing
was the only one that survived. But for
example, go get it is one of our top
values. And the idea of go get it is
obviously it's literally what we do. We
go we help people go or get it, right?
Rise and eats. So it's kind of fun in
terms of what we do, but it's an
attitude which is we as a company, we're
go-getters. We're going to be
aggressive. We're going to push. We're
going to move fast. We play to win. And
so the value sets that we have, go get
it or one that I really like, great
minds don't think alike. We came up with
a with a set of values which I think is
unusual and describes how we are
different as a company and it's really
true to who we are.
>> How important is um this sort of this
attitude of failure and experimentation
especially in a world that's
transitioning as fast as the one we're
in. When you listen to people like Ray
Kurswell his predictions of the future
he says that if you're 10 now by the age
of 60 you'll experience a year's change
in I think it's 11 days and just this
sort of this sort of exponential
acceleration
>> the law of accelerating returns.
>> Yeah. Like how do you how do you you
know how do you create a culture or
build a team in a world where the
correct answer is changing this quickly?
I I think that it is um setting a
culture that does embrace that change
and is constantly challenging itself.
And I will give uh Travis and the
founding team credit. You know that
there's kind of this
idea of everything that they did was
terrible and that's just not true. We
have a very high talent bar at the
company. We have always kept a high
talent bar at the company and we haven't
compromised. And what I found is that
talented people who are also driven are
on a constant hunt for the truth. So
culture isn't enough. You actually need
the right people at the company. And I
think we've got a company that does have
a chip on a shoulder
was born out of the creation of a new
industry. So we've experienced it. Um,
and we have a group of people who are
driven and hungry
and are constantly looking for change
and you got a leader and a leadership
team that's pushing the company to do so
and doesn't penalize
folks for challenging them. I think it's
kind of this stew that you have to put
together, but it's a combination of
culture and people. Do you have any
mental case studies of great bets the
company has taken that most people
wouldn't have taken or thought was wrong
or wouldn't have taken the risk on that
trans transpired to be critical to your
success?
>> Well, you know, I don't know about um
well, I think it will be critical to to
the success, but there's a funny one
which is
taxis
are one of the fastest growing parts of
Uber's business. So you remember Uber,
we started as the enemy of taxis
>> and built out this peer-to-peer ride
sharing. And it's probably five or six
years ago, our head of product now,
Sachin, he worked on building kind of um
a technology that would allow taxi
companies to to have their own little
Uber app. And eventually he came to
Uber, thank God, and he's like, well,
why don't we build that in Uber? Why
don't we actually build taxis on Uber?
And originally within the company and
and I I kept in touch with some of the
founders just cuz I want their advice
cuz why not? You know, they they built a
great company. I'm standing on the
shoulders of giants. Uh they said it's
the most idiotic thing on earth that you
can't wire up taxis. They hate us. They
set rates will be terrible. Lots of
technical reasons. They had tried it
earlier. It was a total failure. But I
think Sachin
uh having worked in the industry and
then my being kind of ignorant saying
why the hell not try it that combination
allowed us to build out a taxi product
and taxi is the fastest growing segment
of the company and it went completely
against the founding of the company. But
now we're you know I I hope to have
every single taxi in the world wired up
to Uber. Why not?
>> For the first 10 years that I was a
founder I didn't prioritize getting a
good night's sleep at all. But over
time, I started to realize that it was
the key metric that influenced
everything in my life. My mood, my
focus, my ability to show up and to
think clearly and to lead well. So now
with my lifestyle being pretty crazy,
traveling across time zones, working
late, training late, I still fight to
protect my sleep, which sometimes means
starting the day a little bit later. It
was my Whoop that helped me to make this
connection. They are one of my sponsors
for the show, and for the last four
years, every day, my Whoop has given me
insights into my sleep, my recovery, the
strain I'm taking on, and more broadly,
how my daily behaviors influence my
overall holistic health. It's the
difference between guessing and knowing
why I might be feeling the way that I
feel. Sometimes it will nudge me.
Sometimes it will get me to slow down.
Sometimes it pushes me to go even
harder, but all the time it provides me
with data that gives me a deeper
understanding of myself. And without it,
it'd be hard to optimize how I live and
perform. Right now, you can get one
month free through my link at
join.woop.com/ceo.
One month free. Join.woop.com/co.
This company that I've just invested in
is growing like crazy. I want to be the
one to tell you about it because I think
it's going to create such a huge
productivity advantage for you. Whisper
Flow is an app that you can get on your
computer and on your phone on all your
devices and it allows you to speak to
your technology. So instead of me
writing out an email, I click one button
on my phone and I can just speak the
email into existence and it uses AI to
clean up what I was saying. And then
when I'm done, I just hit this one
button here and the whole email is
written for me. And it's saving me so
much time in a day because Whisper
learns how I write. So on WhatsApp, it
knows how I am, a little bit more
casual. On email, a little bit more
professional. And also, there's this
really interesting thing they've just
done. I can create little phrases to
automatically do the work for me. I can
just say Jack's LinkedIn and it copies
Jack's LinkedIn profile for me because
it knows who Jack is in my life. This is
saving me a huge amount of time. company
is growing like absolute crazy and this
is why I invested in the business and
why they're now a sponsor of this show
and Whisper Flow is frankly becoming the
worstkept secret in business
productivity and entrepreneurship. Check
it out now at whisperflow spelled w i s
p r f l l o w.ai/steven.
It will be a game changer for you. This
is something that I've made for you. I
realize that the direio audience are
strivvers whether it's in business or
health. We all have big goals that we
want to accomplish. And one of the
things I've learned is that when you aim
at the big big big goal, it can feel
incredibly psychologically uncomfortable
because it's kind of like being stood at
the foot of Mount Everest and looking
upwards. The way to accomplish your
goals is by breaking them down into tiny
small steps. And we call this in our
team the 1%. And actually this
philosophy is highly responsible for
much of our success here. So, what we've
done so that you at home can accomplish
any big goal that you have is we've made
these 1% diaries and we released these
last year and they all sold out. So, I
asked my team over and over again to
bring the diaries back, but also to
introduce some new colors and to make
some minor tweaks to the diary. So, now
we have a better range for you. So, if
you have a big goal in mind and you need
a framework and a process and some
motivation, then I highly recommend you
get one of these diaries before they all
sell out once again. And you can get
yours now at the diary.com where you can
get 20% off our Black Friday bundle. And
if you want the link, the link is in the
description below.
And there's another um there's an alien
that's arrived amongst us um which is
AI. And you've you know Uber's always
been somewhat powered from what I
understand by very much so degree but um
the world has changed in the last couple
years as it relates to AI. There's been
a huge acceleration in investment and
improvement of the technology. What do
you
aside from Uber?
>> You talked earlier about your early
childhood and how you know you grew up
with a bit of a paranoia about losing
everything because that's what you
experienced as a young man.
>> You see this technology arrive which is
fundamentally disruptive to all of us
including me as a podcaster. Yeah,
>> I've done the tests and the retention
isn't the retention isn't far off when
it's me or AI. So, it's slightly
concerning, but like how do you how do
you approach such a disruptive
technology? Um, how do you think of it
broadly and the impact it's going to
have on society? And are you paranoid?
>> I'm not paranoid. I'm not I guess I was
going to say I'm not built that way, but
maybe I am. I I think my instinct is
always just to go just to move forward.
And Uber has been built out of an AI
core. all of our pricing, all of our
routing, who you're matched with, uh
whether or not a courier batches a trip,
which is do they take two orders or one
order. All of our systems, underlying
systems are are driven by AI. We do 40
million trips a day. You know, that kind
of orchestration can't be done by uh
heristic rules and we've got to work on
the streets of New York and the streets
of Logos as well. So the the we we have
built the entire company on small AI
models that have been trained on local
problems and then get stitched together.
That's literally what the company is. So
for us AI is it's kind of a core skill
set and and AI can it can mess things
up, right? It it's not because it's not
heruristics based. There are emergent
issues that come out of an AI that works
96% of the time and 4% of the time it
screws up. So we're comfortable with the
uncertainty layer of AI as a company. So
we are I would say moving headlong into
AI. We're not one of the, you know,
research shops, but I would say in terms
of applied AI, the team is driving to
build AI kind of newer AI experiences
across the company.
But, you know, stepping back as a as a
person, the impact on society is going
to be enormous. And going back to
Kurszswwell's kind of law of
accelerating returns,
whereas previously society has always
been able to adjust to these kinds of
shifts. Um, it's been able to adjust
because it had time to adjust. And AI
literally quite literally thinks and AI
will be able to replace the work that
70 80% of humans can do over the next 10
years. 10 years is not a lot of time for
society to adjust to that kind of an
impact. Now are they going to be more
expensive than humans, cheaper than
humans, etc. Who knows? But the
capability will be there probably in the
next 10 years for intellectual jobs
probably call it 15 years for physical
15 20 years for physical jobs because
physical AI
>> is harder you know robots cars etc more
capital heavy takes longer have to deal
with the physical world so the the
changes in society are going to be giant
but my view is you can't slow down the
rate of change.
And if you're a part of that change, at
least you can have some say as to how
that change imprints on society and
imprints on the real world. And so for
me, I'm leaning in. It's a it's a very
very exciting time.
>> 70 to 80% of jobs will be uh disrupted
by AI is like broadly what you said
there. And the pace of change is going
to mean that a lot of people don't have
new jobs to go to because we haven't
>> I think that's the question
>> the retraining challenge and people say
well there's going to be jobs in AI but
like listen I got some friends that
can't just
>> society's always adjusted right farming
was a huge percentage of our labor force
now it's less than 1%
>> but the speed of
>> yeah that I I think that's a question
and you could argue that AIs will be
able to retrain you right the job
retraining is going to change so of
course societyy's going to adjust
>> but I I do think it raises questions,
real questions.
>> I've I've not been able to get an answer
on that really, I think, from the
experts in AI that I've interviewed,
which is like what do those 70 or 80
people% of people do? Because we're
seeing in our own business that there's
many jobs which we would have hired for
previously.
>> Yeah.
>> Um across the board that AI is now doing
exceptionally well. And every single
day, literally daily, we try to see if
the new model, Gemini Pro 3 or whatever,
can do things that we're currently doing
manually. And every day we're getting
those little breakthroughs and going,
"Oh, okay. Now we no longer need to."
And coding is one of those big areas you
talk about a lot where there's been
already sort of big dis disruption
positive disruption at Uber and a lot of
your coders are now using AI to
>> yeah about 90% of our coders are using
AI now that's easy to say but but there
are probably 30% of them that were power
users they are showing a clear
um differentiation in the number of
diffs for example how much a diff is a
code release that's different from the
last code release. So one of the
measurements of productivity is just how
many diffs are you putting to the
codebase. Uber's just a giant codebase.
That's what we are. And so our engineers
are literally the builders of the
company. They are manufacturing the
bricks that go into the system. Uh and
they're architects who are kind of
thinking about what the system should
should look like. Uh, and so while 90%
of our engineers are using
AI tools of some sort, there's about 30%
of them that are using them at a
completely accelerated pace. And it
really is changing their productivity in
a way that I've never ever seen before.
Ultimately, I do think that the
job of a coder is going to change more
and more from actually writing the code
from to some extent orchestrating agents
who are writing the code or building
systems for you. It becomes more of an
orchestration job versus a manual
writing job. But the job will still be
there. And my attitude is if my average
engineer became 25 25% more efficient,
which we haven't gone there yet, but we
will get there. I'm gonna hire more
engineers because I want to go faster.
That there's still lots of unsolved
problems that we haven't solved. But I
can imagine, you know, maybe 5 years
from now as the engineers get more and
more productive, I may not decide to add
engineering headcount because at that
point instead of adding an engineer, I
should add agents and buy some more GPUs
from Nvidia. That may be the investment
in the future. We'll see
>> because thinking about linear versus
exponential as well. If we imagine a
rate of improvement, I don't know, in my
head I go, well, won't there come a time
where you as the CEO or you and a team,
an executive team can tell an agent what
you want to build? You can show it the
strategy and theoretically, I mean, I
can't figure out how this isn't going to
be possible. The agents will then build
and actually maybe they don't even need
you to set the strategy. Maybe
but theoretically, you know, if they if
you imagine any rate of improvement in
the intelligence, maybe at some point
they're going to go, "Well, listen, we
there's a better strategy here." DAR
>> what one of my uh uh one of my team
members told me that some teams have
built a DAR AI you know so so that they
basically make the presentation to the
DAR AI as a prep for making a
presentation to me because you can
imagine like you know by the time
something comes to me there's been a
prep and a meeting and the and the slide
deck has been beautifully honed so they
have DAR AI to tune their prep. Are you
concerned they might show DAR AI to the
board?
>> I was like I was like can I see the code
for DAR AI? I'm curious. She's like no
we're not showing it to you.
>> But is there anything like falsifiable
in what I just said about that there
coming a time in the not so near future
if we imagine exponential improvement
where
>> I think I think where AI
still is missing a beat that humans and
other creatures have is ability to learn
real time. Right? So if if you think
about you and I are learning for this
conversation and maybe your behavior is
going to change by 0.1% because of
actually what you learn here and the
construct of most large AI models is
capture enorm enormous amounts of data
based on the skill set that you're
trying to drive train pre-train that
model put it into the real world and
then there's some post-training of the
of the model based on feedback from from
the world and then when the model's is
released. It's kind of released, right?
And the way the model learns is, you
know, 35 becomes 38, but 35 didn't
learn. The engineers went out and built,
you know, built a new model that's 38
that might have elements of 35 to it,
etc. So, the the AI agents aren't
learning now. Now a lot of what we're
doing is we're building around the
foundation models that then bring kind
of the signals from the real world and
use the skills that the foundation
models have to do good stuff. So you can
>> post- training I'm posting
>> Exactly. So well so we are post-training
but we're learning real time as human
beings and when the models can learn
real time
>> that I think is the point at which I'm
going to kind of think yeah we are all
replaceable but at this point I haven't
seen a model that can learn real time.
One of the real areas of disruption in
AI has been autonomous vehicles. And I
was just before we started recording, I
was saying that uh I have a Tesla in LA
where I live.
>> And it's staggering that I can get in
the car,
>> press a button, and drive two and a half
hours to Joshua Tree without having to
touch the wheel or the the pedals.
>> Now driving, I think, is one of the
biggest employees in the world. Like as
a profession,
>> I mean, we've got nine and a half
million drivers and couriers on our
platform. We are the
largest organizer of flexible work
around the world. and they I I think the
second largest um workforce is a Chinese
army.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. It's a big group of folks that
we've organized
>> and statistically there's less accidents
in an autonomous Tesla than there is if
a human drives it. So it's safer for my
car to drive itself statistically than
for me to drive it. That's true, right?
That the autonomous driving is currently
safer.
>> That's true. So Whimos are safer. And
then now you are a backup to the Tesla,
right, as a human being. So I've I've
got a Tesla as well. And once in a while
it disengages and I've got to or I've
got to disengage. So
it it's not necessarily the pure
autonomous agent that's better than
humans, but definitely the autonomous
agent with a human backup. No question
that's better than the pure human.
>> And we can't be far away from it just
being
>> I mean Whimo's there already, right? Uh
you you live in LA. Uh they've got the
Whimos. We work with them in Austin uh
in Atlanta. And by all accounts, Whimo
drivers are safer than human beings. And
that's going to be true of AV all over
the world. You know, there are million
deaths uh from driving every year in the
world. In the US, it's between 35,000
and 40,000 uh auto fatalities. So to the
extent that these these autonomous
agents and drivers can be better than
humans and they will be better than
humans over a period of time uh there's
a real return on human life as a result
of this
>> those 9 million drivers careers that you
have will be out of work conceivably in
the you know talking about being honest
about the situation. Yeah, I think again
it goes to physical AI as well, right?
So I think 20 years from now, you can
imagine that those 9 million will be
20 million uh AVs maybe, but we have
time between now and then partially
because we don't operate in the virtual
world, right? We operate in the physical
world. You have to get the regulations
up. You have to build the cars, you have
to build the sensor stacks, the the
models have to get there. So there is
time between now and then, but you can
imagine the majority of our trips being
fulfilled by robots of some kind.
Probably not 10 years from now, but you
go 15, 20 years from now, you're going
to start getting there.
>> What do the 9 million people do?
>> I don't know. Now we are expanding the
kind of work that's available on on on
the platform partially as a result of
it. Right? We used to be the only work
is driving. Now there's delivering. You
can have shoppers as well. I think it'll
be a little while at least before you
get AI shoppers. And now actually we
have a team called Uber AI solutions
that uh allows people to train these
same agents and train uh AI agents and
AI models uh and do all kinds of
knowledgebased work on their phone as
well to kind of extend the kind of work
that we offer uh humans on our platform
and different opportunities for for them
to to make money. So we are extending
the platform and then the question is
how much of the platform gets automated
and what's the velocity at which we can
extend our platform into other kinds of
work versus the velocity of automation.
I can't tell you which is going to go
faster.
>> Hands on heart though it does appear
that unemployment is going to be
significantly increased in a world of AI
especially we just imagine this sort of
continual rate of improvement. I just
can't
>> you you you would have to I unless again
historically in societies new kinds of
jobs have come up
>> knowledge jobs physical jobs and now
we've disrupted both
>> that's why there's a question here and I
do think there's a real question as to
the ability of societies to retrain the
abilities of human beings to retrain
themselves AI is going to be a part of
that but the timing there how fast is it
going to go it's a real question mark I
I think you're absolutely I don't think
it's going to be a big issue
big issue uh in the next 5 years, but
when you go 5 plus years, it's going to
become more of a more more of an issue
for society at large.
>> It's interesting because I was thinking
putting two and two together about your
your your father's journey of coming to
the US, losing what he had, losing his
job, and the the loss of like meaning
and purpose being really central to him.
And I could see that basically from your
face that I think what I interpreted
from your face was that he struggled
with as any provider would the loss of
like meaning that comes with because
jobs aren't just about money that it's
especially you know
>> they give you a sense of worth. It's
funny. I I I read um I read a study many
years ago that said when they looked at
suicide letters specifically from men, I
think it was an Australian study in the
suicide letters that the the sentiment
was about not feeling
worth
>> Yes.
>> to your family.
>> Yeah.
>> And the extreme of that was I think my
family would actually now be better off
without me.
>> Interesting. And um and this kind of you
know I think is probably adjacent to
this conversation around job
displacement which is where are we going
to find our meaning in a world where
the machines have now disrupted our
intelligence and our muscles.
>> It's every universal income basic income
test has failed. You know the answer
that you hear from folks is well the
robots are going to do all the work.
they're going to create um utility and
so our work won't have to create utility
so people will just have money but it
goes to exactly what you're saying which
is every single test they've done now
it's not 20 but they've done a couple
tests where certain section of the
population similar population gets
income certain section doesn't and every
time the ones who are getting income do
worse in terms of outcomes because well
we don't know the because I The because
is related to what you're saying which
is
market forces kind of that force someone
to work then create
a perception of self-v valueue
succeeding you know most people succeed
if they're driven to succeed they will
succeed and as they succeed it comes
with a very very deep and important
feeling of I am creating value I'm
supporting my family I'm uh building
this incredible piece of art, etc.
Whatever that value is to you, and
wherever that meaning comes from, I'm an
incredible parent. That value is what
keeps people going. Uh, and I don't
think that, you know, the government
raining money down on society is going
to help.
>> It's refreshing to hear your perspective
on this because a lot of the time, you
know, you'll hear CEOs in the media just
saying, "It'll be fine. Everyone's going
to figure it out." And I think that's
>> historically we have figured it out. So
maybe they're right. But but you have to
ask whether they're giving you the real
stuff or not.
>> Yeah. And that's kind of what I that's
what I I think because I sometimes hear
about private conversations and the
private conversations I hear about the
sheer amount of disruption that they
anticipate and then when I see them on
like CNBC or Davos, it's be fine and
figure it out. And I understand the
incentive because if they were to start
ringing the bell, it might hurt their
own chance of like innovating and
fundraising and all those things. But I
think you sit at this sort of happy
medium of being Yeah. as the CEO of
Uber, you've got to you've got to pursue
the opportunity in the technology. But
on the other hand, to be honest and say,
listen, there's going to be big
disruption and we I don't know the
answers.
>> I remember you were talking about CNBC,
a CNBC anchor once we had an interview
and afterwards she said, uh, you know, I
really like you.
>> You actually answer my questions. And
I'm thinking to myself,
what am I not supposed to? There there's
like the the PR trading is always if you
get a bad question, don't answer the
question. just pivot to something else.
And for me, like I've I've sworn to
myself, uh, and Noah, who's who's up
there, is probably going to kill me
afterwards. It's just I'm going to
answer the question. I'm not going to do
the BS. And again, I have to think the
anchor knows what's happening. The
audience knows what what's happening.
So, I'm like, I'll answer the question.
If it's a shitty question, I'll deal
with it.
>> I actually don't like interviewing CEOs,
which is funny because the name of the
podcast because active
>> how did how did the the Cuz I I looked
before I came on. And I'm like, I'm
going to look up on uh uh yeah, the
CEOs. And there aren't that many CEOs.
>> Well, if I looked at your diary, what
would I find inside your diary? I would
probably find you contending with being
a father, your psychology. I might find
some things in there about your health.
I can see you're a guy that goes to the
gym.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and I think it's all interlin. I
think for you to be an exceptional CEO,
you probably think a lot about your
past, your childhood, your health, your
how to optimize and all these things.
And so honestly, you can't do a podcast
like this for 20 years
>> and just hit the same thing every day.
>> You need to be I need to be
intellectually stimulated.
>> And you and me are both multifaceted
creatures, I guess. So that's why it's
evolved
>> until we become AIs.
>> Until we become AIs. Yeah. Just closing
off on that then, um, what can we do
about this from an AI AV perspective? Is
it the government's responsibility? Is
it collective action?
So one is I do think that we don't talk
enough in that for example with
autonomous AI can be a force for good
right it's these drivers are going to be
safer than human beings and those we can
take the 35,000 fatalities to 3,000
fatalities etc. I do think that the AI's
the AV is going to bring down the price
of transportation. So a a big part of
our goal is to make ondemand
transportation available for everybody.
One of the folks that I was talking to
was talking about how Uber has changed
her mother's life. Like her mom can get
around and it just wouldn't get around
without it, right? We want more moms
like that. So, I do think it's important
to recognize that if transport
fundamental transportation becomes
safer, it becomes cheaper. Going back to
Jean's paradox, that's a good thing for
society, right?
I don't think that the answer as it
relates to society is to try to slow
down the pace of change because
China won't for example if we're uh
talking about the west. So I think you
just have to lean into it. I think that
discussions like this are important. I
think you look for technology leaders
who are talking about it. Daario, for
example, Anthropic is talking uh about
it, pissing some people off, but I think
he's having good discussions there. And
then I do think that
the the society arming up to be able to
retrain
large groups of people at scale is not a
skill. I don't see people investing that
and I don't see that as a core
capability of any of our countries etc.
There's one thing I can come up with, it
will be that is the retraining machine.
>> You've got f four kids.
>> Yes.
>> They come to you, they say, "Dad,
listen. AI, robotics, give me some
advice for my future. What should I be
doing?"
>> Work hard. You're going to be fine. Work
hard. It's it's just that's I mean, now
the AI theoretically can can work harder
than you, but I I find
one of the pieces of advice I give to
young people is don't plan. Okay. I wind
up, we went through a history. I wound
up where I am today having not planned a
thing. I didn't when I was an investment
banker. I wasn't dreaming of becoming
CEO, etc. And and what I find is that
people who have too much of a career
plan, who have too much clarity about
what they're doing, they they lose their
curiosity. And and human beings look for
positive signal, right? you whether you
like it or not. Anytime someone agrees
with you makes you feel a little bit
better, anytime you get signal that goes
against your preconceived notions,
either you ignore it or you're like,
"All right, [__] I'm going to I'm going
to take this on." It's unpleasant. And
so with with career planning, what I
find is people who have too clear uh
career plan, they're looking for signals
that feed into their career plan. I'm
going to be a vice president by this
much. I'm going to make X money by this
much. and they're not looking around,
they're not being curious. They're not
looking for signal that can change, you
know, their life. And and and so what I
tell some folks is like before you go
out and try to change a world, let the
world change you first. You know, take
input. And if you're like this, you got
blinders cuz I'm going here. You're not
going to take input. You're not going to
let you're not going to take all the
stimulus coming in from the world.
though it's, you know, the one constant
I see is people who are good are good.
People who are good. I've never seen a
successful person in in a job or a
career get there without
working hard. And my guess is, I don't
know about you, you kind of wound up
where you're wound up kind of by
accident.
>> And people are like, well, you got
lucky. I got very lucky to be here. like
I had so many kind of
moments and and some would say I took
advantage of that l of of that luck but
to some extent I was able to take
advantage of that luck because I was
open being open. You jumped from Expedia
to Uber. Um in part helped by some
advice that our mutual friend Daniel E
the founder of Spotify gave you.
>> He's actually just text me. I text him
saying hey can you uh can you send me a
question to ask Dario but he said I'm in
the middle of now texting while we're
talking. Damn it. No, just before I
walked in, I've just looked. He texted
me back saying he's on an earnings call.
Never mind. But um he said, "Good luck
with the interview." Um what did Daniel
X say to you that helped to form that
decision to go to Uber?
>> So he's the one who recommended I think
I was I was uh contacted by head hunter.
He recommended me to the head hunter who
called me. Uh I told him I was actually
at the Allen and Company conference
going back in a a circle with him and we
were having a drink one night and he
asked me, he's like, "Did the head
hunter call you?" there's this Uber roll
and at the at the time Uber was a
disaster like disaster and everyone was
reading about it. I was at Expedia. I
had just gotten this wonderful contract
that you said at the beginning. So I was
I was going to stay and I love working
for Barry. We're like it it it's been
it's been the best professional
partnership of of my life. And I said of
course I'm not going to go. You know I'm
so happy about what I'm doing at
Expedia. And Daniel like looks at me.
He's got his like cold Scandinavian
eyes. He's like, "Dra, since when is
life about being happy? It's about
making impact. Uber is a great company
and you can have an impact on that
company. You've got to do this." So the
next day I had called the head hunter
previously. I said, "No, no, I'm not
interested." The next day I called the
head hunter and I said, "Let's talk." So
Daniel was the one who opened me up. And
your dad, he gave you advice.
>> Well, I talked to my dad and uh his my
dad is keeps things simple and he said,
"Do you as far as he when a company
who's a verb tells you to run it, you
just say yes." So, I thought that was
good uh good advice. And and ultimately
I think people who
come to Uber stay at Uber. They come
because of the challenge but they stay
because of the impact. Like we are
building a company that is important to
the world and for me I could come and I
could have an I could have impact on
impactful company. So why the hell not?
And when he says a company that's a
verb, he's referring to the fact that
everybody in the the taxiing or
transportation category uses Uber as a
verb to even if they're talking about a
competitor.
>> Exactly. Right.
>> Um and there's always one company in
every sort of industry that owns them.
>> We have a closing tradition here where
the last guest leaves a question for the
next guest not knowing who they're
leaving it for. And the question left
for you is, what is one conversation
that if you could rewind time and have
you would have today but can no longer
have?
It was a conversation with with my dad.
Um,
you know, I told you I came to New York
from San Francisco and uh it was because
my dad was getting very old and he was
losing his mental facilities.
>> And I'm glad I came back and I got to
spend time with him. But those last
times, you know, when I spent time with
him, it wasn't really him. And I wish I
could talk to him about his experiences,
his younger life, the excitement of
building something and then the loss and
regrets he had in in life as well. I
never had, you know, my relationship
with him was kind of was there was love.
No question about love, but we didn't
have the deep kind of conversations that
certainly I'm hoping I get to have with
my kids. So, that's a conversation I'd
love to have. And you can't get time
back. Uh, and that's one of the
tragedies of life, but it's also one of
the beauties of life, you know, which is
there are some mistakes that you make
that are permanent. Um, and you can't
get that back. But my then making
genuine conversations with you and
connections with my friends and having a
real relationship not just with my wife
and my kids, but actually like with my
workmates. you know, we
having those genuine conversations and
connections
um is my way of correcting for the
conversation I never had with my dad.
>> Dra, thank you.
>> Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
You're a huge inspiration for me in so
many ways and even more so now having
done so much research on you in
preparation for this conversation
because it is it is rare to find a
leader who has been consistently
successful across different domains
who's built this really really in my
opinion quite rare skill stack from
investing to CFO to then being able to
transition to CEO and then has
repeatedly contended with moments of
transition and given us all frameworks
as founders and entrepreneurs for how to
deal with that transition. One of the
great ones I take away from you is is
honesty. Yeah, honesty is so powerful.
And I'll tell you, I learned I learned
that skill from my wife. She's just she
she's always like people are people.
Doesn't matter. You know, they eat, they
crab, they have to go to sleep. And she
treats everybody in her life the same
way regardless of their position. And
and uh
>> like your dad did.
>> Uh yeah. Yeah. And she's she's honestly
it's just so powerful.
>> Thank you so much.
>> You're very welcome.
>> An unbelievable inspiration. Thank you.
I appreciate it.
>> YouTube have this new crazy algorithm
where they know exactly what video you
would like to watch next based on AI and
all of your viewing behavior. And the
algorithm says that this video is the
perfect video for you. It's different
for everybody looking right now. Check
this video out and I bet you you might
love